He floating control.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Alright, recap, recap for week one.
NOTE CONF
So last week we obviously went through a bunch of
uh housekeeping items, right, we went through, um, where you
NOTE CONF
can find all the informations, it's on Canvas.
um I'll also periodically send you all emails just to
NOTE CONF
see how you guys are going, um, as well as
if you miss out on some question sets and maybe
NOTE CONF
participation.
I think the system will be able to highlight that
NOTE CONF
and I'll just send you emails as well.
So just make sure that is um the the the
NOTE CONF
way you keep yourself updated.
Course requirement, general attitude to learning, uh, shouldn't need to
NOTE CONF
reiterate that too much because you guys are all adults,
you know, coming from high school into now 2nd year
NOTE CONF
and 3rd year possibly.
Uh, universally, you should know how everything floats.
NOTE CONF
If you haven't quite worked that out yet, it is
a very self-motivated environment.
NOTE CONF
Make sure that you do participate, and obviously I'm talking
to the crowd that do participate in the lectures, so,
NOTE CONF
you know.
Thank you for coming, I guess.
NOTE CONF
Um, for those who cannot make it, um, obviously I'm
trying my best with recording and so I'm doing this,
NOTE CONF
um, soon.
We'll see how this works, right?
NOTE CONF
So the idea is to capture a feed so that
you can at least see me interacting with the slides
NOTE CONF
and whatnot.
It's a bit more engaging and, uh, over time, I'm
NOTE CONF
trying to change that up as well, so any feedback
from you, that would be welcome.
NOTE CONF
Um, our general attitude towards using Gen AI to do
a lot of your work.
NOTE CONF
Now, my take is Gen AI is a great study
buddy, right, so make sure that you use it as
NOTE CONF
a study buddy, right, meaning that, you know, it only
responds to the, to the prompts that you give them,
NOTE CONF
right, and it also hallucinates, and by that I mean
it's a probabilistic model.
NOTE CONF
So, You know, trust it with a grain of salt,
but if you test it enough times, right, you'll understand
NOTE CONF
roughly it it's kinda doing the thing as you want.
Um, the, the sort of important thing is that you
NOTE CONF
need to feed the information.
So, the most useful prompts that I've used tends to
NOTE CONF
be me giving it both the context as well as
the sub role it plays, and I've already put up
NOTE CONF
a prompt last week and perhaps you can play around
with that, so, I think this is like your part
NOTE CONF
of your toolkit in learning and moving forward, right?
I don't know how, how many people are using Gen
NOTE CONF
AI but I think everyone should be using it and
getting understanding with it.
NOTE CONF
Just like how in the first original days when Search
Engine came about, right, looking for keywords and asking the
NOTE CONF
right question, finding what you need.
So use that to reframe the different, Examples give you
NOTE CONF
sort of insight into, into, um, the topic, try and
chat with it, you know, you can ask it, you
NOTE CONF
know, to to be a student and you can be
the teacher trying to teach it and then say, ask
NOTE CONF
me questions that you don't understand.
And perhaps in those discussions, right, even though it is
NOTE CONF
a bit artificial, um, you'll learn a bit more about
the topic, you may understand that, oh, you don't really
NOTE CONF
know that area that much.
Um, but don't use it to completely do all your
NOTE CONF
work for you, even though, you know, you can, now.
If you go to the tutorial questions, if the whole
NOTE CONF
point is just to fulfil the requirements and like tick
the box, then yeah, you can literally copy and paste
NOTE CONF
those questions set into a chatbot, and then out comes
the code and then paste it and say, I've done
NOTE CONF
it.
But what does that do to you, right?
NOTE CONF
You don't really learn anything for yourself.
So, you know, just be very mindful of delusion of
NOTE CONF
competency.
The second that tool goes offline, can you still understand
NOTE CONF
what you're asked to do?
Right, if you can't, then maybe there's uh room for
NOTE CONF
growth there.
Um, I've also mentioned the project work.
NOTE CONF
So the project work is to come from, um, week
56 onwards.
NOTE CONF
So by next week, right, week 3, you'll need to
formalise your team.
NOTE CONF
And I'll talk more about the team formation and the
process of finding the right candidates and whatnot.
NOTE CONF
I've already had a question on Thursday class on, You
know, can we have the same discipline in the mix?
NOTE CONF
Uh, the official guideline is no, we want you to
be interdisciplinary.
NOTE CONF
So two members from each of the, of the, um,
disciplines.
NOTE CONF
So if you find a mate who's in bio met
and, uh, and bioengineering, and another who's in, uh, civil,
NOTE CONF
you know, pair that up, that's your 4 people team,
right?
NOTE CONF
But in some situation, because of the class constraints, uh,
we may not actually have that split.
NOTE CONF
So under those situations we try to, we try to
be, um, you know, ad hoc with what needs to
NOTE CONF
happen.
But it is in your best interest to work with
NOTE CONF
other members who are not in your discipline.
Now that's because in the real world, right, you often
NOTE CONF
interact with people who don't have the same background as
you, and so you need to learn the common language,
NOTE CONF
and that is a training ground for it.
Right, you can't just always expect, ah, to be talking
NOTE CONF
to a mechanical engineer and then just, you know.
So of word exchange means the same thing, right?
NOTE CONF
But when you're working with different engineers, perhaps your definition
of stress is not the same as their stress, like,
NOTE CONF
you know, like, I'm talking about material stress and whatnot,
right?
NOTE CONF
Or, or some other technical term.
So it is a bit, you know, useful to, to
NOTE CONF
have an interaction with different domains of expertise.
Um, and then finally, again, the learner expectation, just, um,
NOTE CONF
contribution towards those surveys.
Um, the Google Form has already got a bunch of,
NOTE CONF
uh, information in there, which is great.
So if you haven't already completed the, um, Google Form
NOTE CONF
survey last time, try to do that.
Um, we're just trying to create.
NOTE CONF
A data set, maybe we can play around with it.
I'm not sure.
NOTE CONF
Um, but that's the intent, right?
We're just gonna do a social experiment in our class
NOTE CONF
and then through that, because part of your learning is
to learn how to process the data, how to come
NOTE CONF
up with, um, machine learning pipelines, um, maybe you can
use that as a, uh, experiment to it.
NOTE CONF
OK?
OK, alright, recap from week one.
NOTE CONF
What is an intelligence system?
We talked briefly about that, it's uh basically anything that,
NOTE CONF
you know, it takes a takes an action based on
a uncertain information set, um, so that it delivers a,
NOTE CONF
A very highly desirable outcome, and a lot of those
words are subjective, right, so it is up to you
NOTE CONF
as an engineer, designing a system to then be able
to take action, fill in the blank what action that
NOTE CONF
is, desirable outcome, fill in what desirable outcome is, right,
and then obviously the highly probable thing is, is your
NOTE CONF
environment.
Now you imagine a self-driving car, right?
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of moving parts in there.
You've got various different driving environments, you've got the car
NOTE CONF
moving left and right and starting and stopping and when
to make those judgement calls, and then the desirable outcome
NOTE CONF
is to keep the passengers safe and alive, right, and
not to kill other bystanders as well.
NOTE CONF
OK, so, so that is a very sim simplistic way
of describing a self-driving car system.
NOTE CONF
uh, obviously it is very challenging and you've seen in
the real world, it is not as simple as just
NOTE CONF
what I just stated.
It's taking them what, 45, about 78 years now since
NOTE CONF
the first launching of those autonomous vehicles, and even Teslas
are collecting dataset every day just so they can better
NOTE CONF
their, their intelligence system.
Now intelligence systems, um, so I've talked about that, that
NOTE CONF
takes actions to achieve a highly desirable outcome.
Machine learning algorithm, um, What is, what is, yeah, there's
NOTE CONF
a cut off here, strangely, to output, potentially self-adjusting with
data set.
NOTE CONF
Now why machine learning is so interesting compared to conventional
system control um algorithms is that once you set this
NOTE CONF
thing in motion, By definition, it should be able to
adjust itself to different data sets and uncertainties.
NOTE CONF
Right, you give it a data set that you've seen,
much like yourself, right, if you think about it, right,
NOTE CONF
everyone is almost like a pseudo machine learning, or we
should say the machine learning systems has emulated the human
NOTE CONF
psychology, right?
You don't see everything in your life, right, up to
NOTE CONF
this point, but at least you have all the judgement
calls and the policies involved, so that you can make
NOTE CONF
the right call.
In an uncertain situation.
NOTE CONF
That is really what you're trying to replicate here, but
in a more sort of dumbed down environment, a dumbed
NOTE CONF
down sort of situation where there's only one or two
actions, um, to be made.
NOTE CONF
OK, so that's really the definition of machine learning, it's,
it's like a, it's like a parallel to to human
NOTE CONF
learning.
Um, and a lot of this comes down to good
NOTE CONF
data sets.
Now if you don't collect a good data set, then
NOTE CONF
you don't have the best representation of what is, um,
you know, what is being shown, right, in the real
NOTE CONF
world.
And so you don't actually, you can't train the the
NOTE CONF
machine learning algorithm to the, to the right level.
Just because you want good data set doesn't mean that
NOTE CONF
collecting everything is good, right, there's something called dimensionality, which
is basically every single row uh columns, right, you have
NOTE CONF
an extra parameter, it is a dimension.
And you know, with more dimension, yes, you can have
NOTE CONF
better forecasts, you have better accuracy and the precision, but
there is also a compute issue, right?
NOTE CONF
It will take exponentially more compute power just to do
something simple.
NOTE CONF
So the curse of dimensionality, um, basically says that there
should be an optimum number of features that you're looking
NOTE CONF
for that best represents the environment.
Alright, best represents the environment, so that you can make
NOTE CONF
the right actions, so then you can have that desirable
outcome.
NOTE CONF
Um, you also need to be wary about how the
data is being represented, right?
NOTE CONF
Now, I, I don't know if I have the picture,
but you can imagine, right, if you have Cartesian coordinates,
NOTE CONF
right, X and Y numbers.
If you plot that in a, in a, in a
NOTE CONF
soft scattered plot, right, where there's two colours, the central,
central bit maybe is like green or something, the outer
NOTE CONF
ring will be red.
That is actually quite confusing for machine learning because, you
NOTE CONF
know, the two different colour data pots exist in both
quadrants, in 4 quadrants of your, of your pseudo sort
NOTE CONF
of aximet.
If you were to re-represent this and transform the data
NOTE CONF
into polar coordinates, then that's very different because there could
be a centroid and then a central point and around
NOTE CONF
that is a ring of colours, right?
And so representation comes into play.
NOTE CONF
It's not just a data set, it is your job
to find the right representation that best represent the environment,
NOTE CONF
and then also then compute what those machine learning.
Um, You know, linear, linear maths, uh, equation would be.
NOTE CONF
So there's a lot involved, um, for the human in
this loop, it's not just autonomous everything, right, part of
NOTE CONF
your job for now, until we, we have some sort
of singularity, AGI.
NOTE CONF
Whatever that happens in the next 5 years, um, you,
you guys are still a big part of this whole
NOTE CONF
process, and describing the system to an autonomous, um, compute
is actually part of the job of an engineer.
NOTE CONF
So your job is not really just to solve problems.
I would say it's better stated that, you know, your
NOTE CONF
job as engineers is developing the right mindset to describe
a problem to then dissect that problem and then autonomously
NOTE CONF
get bits and pieces solved and bring it back together.
Now there was a question yesterday, oh sorry, last week,
NOTE CONF
on, on, um, is there any, is there any textbooks?
Um, and I've put up this 4 textbooks I thought
NOTE CONF
would be quite a good broad introduction, um, you can
read the different chapters as you need.
NOTE CONF
I'm not gonna map the the notes to each of
those chapters, it's also not, Uh, linear to the, to
NOTE CONF
the chapter's description either, but all these books are on,
um, in the library as well, so I put up
NOTE CONF
the book list on Canvas.
Um, you should be able to borrow these ebooks online
NOTE CONF
as well, right?
Or, you know, do your, do your sort of, um,
NOTE CONF
resourcefulness and find a copy somewhere on the, on the
www bid, right, white web.
NOTE CONF
But they should be accessible, um, you know, in the
Fisher library anyway.
NOTE CONF
There's um, from last week we had the, we have
the tutorial question one, right?
NOTE CONF
I've also put up the model answers.
So for those who are quite new to programming, make
NOTE CONF
sure you go through and look at, you know, what
your answers and what some of the provider answers may
NOTE CONF
look like.
Um, in terms of the functionality, there's no difference, but
NOTE CONF
it is the way it's been represented.
So there is a workflow, right, and try to design
NOTE CONF
your own workflow.
This is how we can distinguish different people from, you
NOTE CONF
know, their work, uh, amongst yourselves, right, because everyone has
a slightly different way of coding and commenting your code
NOTE CONF
and how to layer it up.
I've noticed that a lot of students are using the,
NOTE CONF
the codes directly as a pie script, you know, don't
do that.
NOTE CONF
Use a Jupiter notebook set up so then you can
run little boxes of codes, then you can do experiments
NOTE CONF
that way, comment on that, and then, you know, develop
that pipeline.
NOTE CONF
It makes a big difference because later down the track,
and today we'll talk about how to compare models.
NOTE CONF
And when we're comparing, um, different model sets, you want
to know the accuracy and the precision.
NOTE CONF
And if you just have your codes everywhere, it's really
difficult to go, all right, this coat is, you know,
NOTE CONF
better than that coat, better than that one.
So, you know, develop your own pipeline on how to
NOTE CONF
code, how to experiment, how to understand what you're doing.
And obviously I put up with 2's tutorial questions this
NOTE CONF
morning, along with the data set.
So, this week we're gonna be talking about um conceptual
NOTE CONF
description of machine learning as a as a problem, right?
There's a major class differences between classification and regression.
NOTE CONF
Um, and sort of the bigger extent, we touched base
on that last time about supervised versus unsupervised learning.
NOTE CONF
And how do you really compare, um, performances?
Because, you know, you could be doing things with this
NOTE CONF
black box, but then how do you know this black
box is better than this other black box?
NOTE CONF
They equally the same, right?
Like, if you don't know anything about it.
NOTE CONF
So, understanding what you're looking for and what problems that
you're trying to solve is very important.
NOTE CONF
And then maybe we're in on um data preprocessing.
Yes, I think, I think we'll talk about um.
NOTE CONF
Training sets and how to cut the data up so
then you can, you can get more, more use out
NOTE CONF
of the same data set, right, because, as I said
before, it is about representation, if it's not well captured
NOTE CONF
in your original input, you cannot develop the thing that's
in the middle for your output to be mapped out.
NOTE CONF
So we'll go through that.
So who he just roughly has already worked with CSV
NOTE CONF
files and massive data sets of sorts?
Yeah, a portion of you.
NOTE CONF
So some of you guys would be like, what is
this massive table of thing, right?
NOTE CONF
Now we described last time that basically you're working towards
a function, right, a function is any sort of mathematical
NOTE CONF
compute that takes a X and a Y, it's a
mapping process.
NOTE CONF
Now, in order to develop this ML you need to
train it.
NOTE CONF
So then you need to bring in the data, and
obviously, the organisation of this data set is often in
NOTE CONF
um CSV which is a comma separated values.
It's simply just every value, com, right?
NOTE CONF
These are, these are easy stuff for you.
Um, but then every role you have is basically a
NOTE CONF
new entry, obviously.
But then every column is a feature.
NOTE CONF
Now future could be things that you're looking for, or
could be things that you already have and are using
NOTE CONF
those as a predictor for something else.
Right, this is where some of the confusion comes in,
NOTE CONF
right?
Because you're like, well, I have, I have, you know,
NOTE CONF
100 roles, right?
I have only 3 columns.
NOTE CONF
Is that enough?
Is that enough to train a machine learning model to
NOTE CONF
predict something?
Right, it could be predicting missing values within that column,
NOTE CONF
or it could be predicting a new column altogether.
Right, so it's, that is really what we're talking about
NOTE CONF
in terms of dimensionality.
So in this particular example, you have column A to
NOTE CONF
what M, which is 13.
Right, and so forth.
NOTE CONF
So there's almost already 14 dimensions if you're looking at
column N next to M as well.
NOTE CONF
Um, but some columns are more useful than others.
So part of your job is to tease out what
NOTE CONF
are the features that you're gonna put into your machine
learning model.
NOTE CONF
What are the, what is the final label that you
want to create, now it could be again a categorical
NOTE CONF
label or it could be a a continuous data set,
right?
NOTE CONF
So this is what you'll be dealing with, you know,
day in, day out for the next, for the, for
NOTE CONF
the next remaining weeks.
The same thing happens for an image, right?
NOTE CONF
If you take a um a a JPEG, right?
JPEG file, like for example, I'm developing a machine learning
NOTE CONF
model to recognise car plates, right?
You just take a picture, right.
NOTE CONF
Now the first thing about that is processing that into
some sort of matrix, so then it's represented as one
NOTE CONF
long row of something, right?
Each entry point, each car plate, is going to be
NOTE CONF
one row.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And you can imagine, well, it's like, well how do
I represent what happens to each of the pixels?
NOTE CONF
Well, pixels have 3 colours, right?
So you've got 3 values.
NOTE CONF
And so in a sort of 10 by 10, I
don't know, like maybe 100 pixel by 100 pixel image,
NOTE CONF
there's already quite a number of columns you can imagine,
but then you have to times that by 3 because
NOTE CONF
of the colour integers, right?
So, when you're dealing with images, you have a lot
NOTE CONF
more dimensions.
When you're dealing with something like a text or a
NOTE CONF
numerical um dataset, you know, it is something that you
can almost imagine and visualise because it's, it's still within
NOTE CONF
your sort of cognitive ability to go, all right, yeah,
that's 100 columns, you know, can you imagine 1000, a
NOTE CONF
million columns and then going through this convolution neural net
that pushes it down to like 100, 100 labels.
NOTE CONF
So it's kind of like, you know, that's the scale
we're working towards.
NOTE CONF
I think by the end of the course, we will
be talking about convolution neural networks, because some of the
NOTE CONF
projects in the past uh involves using MRI MRI data,
MI MRI, yeah, correct.
NOTE CONF
MRI data is, right, to, to basically forecast if there's
a tumour or not.
NOTE CONF
So, you know, don't, don't be too afraid of those
more complicated systems, it is just a, So of linear
NOTE CONF
scaling up of this particular system, right?
So as a recap, we have a number of K
NOTE CONF
values on the right, um, streaming that way, dimensionality, some
are representative of the system, some are redundancy, right, so
NOTE CONF
if you're looking at maybe gearbox, One, right, the shifting
of gearbox, like column B and column D, they could
NOTE CONF
be like mirrored off each other, right, when one value
goes up, the other value goes down.
NOTE CONF
So they're actually describing the same thing, right, so the
first thing is obviously to look at if the correlator
NOTE CONF
in any way.
I've put up two exercises here which I think you
NOTE CONF
you guys should um take some time to do this
in addition to your tutorial questions, which is to go
NOTE CONF
to Kegle to download a CSV file and then use
Pandas to read it, and then process that in some
NOTE CONF
ways.
If you're able to do this, you'll be able to
NOTE CONF
do this week's tutorial questions with ease because there's a
lot of questions similar to that.
NOTE CONF
It's processing it.
Finding the statistics, the descriptive statistics around that, and then
NOTE CONF
yielding some sort of information about your system.
So you can find any data set and this website
NOTE CONF
provides a lot of free data sets, um, you can
play around with that and later in the project we'll
NOTE CONF
expect you to come to this website to find things
and also other places as well.
NOTE CONF
Um, if you have access to your own data set,
by all means bring it to your table.
NOTE CONF
Um, but again, this is up to you and your
and your team to discuss.
NOTE CONF
It's like, OK, well, what problem are we trying to
work out, you know.
NOTE CONF
And unfortunately, right, when we're fighting for this particular problem,
um, project that is, it's gonna be a two part
NOTE CONF
challenge.
It's, you know, how accessible do you, do you, uh,
NOTE CONF
are you able to get the data set and how
passionate you are about a certain problem.
NOTE CONF
If you're passionate about a problem but you have no
data set, then unfortunately within this 13 week process, it's
NOTE CONF
not, Possible to like be collecting some of the data,
then to get the data, um, get the problem done.
NOTE CONF
So it is a bit uh tricky that way, but
that's OK, we can, we can fix that soon.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So, conceptual description of a machine learning model.
NOTE CONF
Problem, we've described that often it is mapped out, um,
your data record is in roads, the different columns is
NOTE CONF
your dimension.
They can be labelled, um, in a situation where you
NOTE CONF
have the labels and responses, right, and then you're training
it, that's called supervised learning.
NOTE CONF
So that is actually the label you have already, right?
Imagine, right, I give you 100 apples, and you have
NOTE CONF
the size of each apple, you have the colour, intensity
of the retinas, and maybe the weight of it.
NOTE CONF
And then you eat all 100 apples, right?
And then you go, alright, well this is tasty, this
NOTE CONF
is not tasty, this is tasty, this is sour, this
is not.
NOTE CONF
You label your 100 rolls.
And I'll give you another 100 apples, right?
NOTE CONF
I'll give you those three measurements, and I'm gonna ask
you to predict, do you think that apple is gonna
NOTE CONF
be tasty, sour, not so much.
Training that label set from the 1st 100 is really
NOTE CONF
what supervised learning is about, right?
When you don't even have the original, you know, taste
NOTE CONF
assessment, that's when we're talking about without labels, and that's
called an unsupervised learning.
NOTE CONF
And actually that is uh a lot more powerful in,
in, well in a given sort of scenario, um, because
NOTE CONF
not, not all the time do you have all the
labels in place.
NOTE CONF
And so the second, the second part of that, like
the unsupervised learning, as we talked about last time, I
NOTE CONF
sort of pointed it out, it's really about discovery, right?
It's about looking for patterns that you can perhaps then
NOTE CONF
devise new experiments to then generate some sort of confirmation
pieces around that.
NOTE CONF
But in most cases for now, right, we can, we
can, uh, assume that, you know, we're gonna learn about
NOTE CONF
machine learning.
We're gonna use label situations, so it's a supervised learning,
NOTE CONF
so then you can train the system, you can verify
if the system's correct, and then you can use that
NOTE CONF
same system to then generate new information without seeing, you
know, the latter 100 apples for example.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So, once the experiment, suppose our model um it's a
NOTE CONF
linear algebra bit, so it's a linear equation Y equals
axe, um there's only one scalar function, uh, feature.
NOTE CONF
Right, the unknoying parameter.
So you can imagine here.
NOTE CONF
What is the best way to find A?
A is simply a gradient, right?
NOTE CONF
That's uh, you know, Y equals MX plus B if
you want to have a, have a, um, intercept function
NOTE CONF
there.
But really the question here is between method A or
NOTE CONF
make method one, which is taking the average of all
the ratios, right, you imagine.
NOTE CONF
And then, um, averaging that out, right?
Is that a better way of finding the gradient or
NOTE CONF
is it to take the ratio across?
So you can see this is kind of a trick
NOTE CONF
question because if you've actually done any maths and everyone's
done that, right, it's not as simple as just that.
NOTE CONF
In fact, the better way, right, in neither way is
actually good.
NOTE CONF
The better way is actually to do a regression.
Right?
NOTE CONF
It's more than just taking the average of the ratio,
it's more than the ratio of the means of each
NOTE CONF
of them.
It's in fact trying to minimise the square um differences
NOTE CONF
between the values.
So here you can see just three different lines, um,
NOTE CONF
showing the 3 different cases, um, but there is a
slight difference.
NOTE CONF
Now that's because it's not, it's not like it's not
lying exactly on the line, right?
NOTE CONF
Like some parts is overestimating, some parts is underestimating, and
so the third method is actually the best, uh, approach,
NOTE CONF
and most of your mathematics are in, in machine learning
is about finding that function.
NOTE CONF
Right?
What is the best function to best describe your data
NOTE CONF
set, because within your data set, there's actual signal and
noise part, right?
NOTE CONF
If you, if you have a function that's really convoluted,
right, fits all the data points, you have a situation
NOTE CONF
where it's overfitting.
If you have a function that, you know, does blah
NOTE CONF
whatever, kind of like the other two, then you're um
underfitting, right?
NOTE CONF
So it's not describing your data set well enough to
then say this is a signal.
NOTE CONF
It's just describing random.
If it's describing too well, then it's also describing the
NOTE CONF
noise.
So the sweet spot is about finding a good regression
NOTE CONF
that you can then compare, right?
Like right now it's easy because it's a linear line.
NOTE CONF
But when you have a polynomial, where, you know, is
it like, is it 3 power, is it 4 power?
NOTE CONF
How do you compare that?
And so a lot of today's work we'll be talking
NOTE CONF
about for a given system, how do we compare A
and B, which model better describe the problem and why
NOTE CONF
do we want to describe it in that way?
OK.
NOTE CONF
So these are all very high level, we're not gonna
get you to do the maths derivation because part of
NOTE CONF
your job here isn't really to learn about the maths,
it's about applying the, the math skills and knowing enough
NOTE CONF
of it to then pull out computer library codes to
then apply to POL.
NOTE CONF
So it's a, it's a very abstract level already, a
higher level, I would say.
NOTE CONF
Um, OK.
Any questions so far?
NOTE CONF
No?
OK.
NOTE CONF
So, um, we've talked about two classes.
Now, what, what just happened with the regression?
NOTE CONF
The backdrop of that is in, it's in the mix
of both of these type of questions, uh, problem sets.
NOTE CONF
But in terms of actual machine learning code, right, you,
you can almost categorically put problems into 22 beams, right?
NOTE CONF
You have classification, which is grouping data into groups, and
this is just a label.
NOTE CONF
It could be as simple as just, you know, is
this Apple good?
NOTE CONF
Yes, no.
Right?
NOTE CONF
Or it could be how good is this Apple, which
is actually the regression bit, right?
NOTE CONF
So it, when it's a continuous, um, when it's a
continuous spectrum, right, continuous data set, it's a regression type
NOTE CONF
of problem, right?
Almost like forecasting raindrops, right?
NOTE CONF
You can have 0.1 mil, 0.2, 0.3, all the way
up, or you can just simply say, is it gonna
NOTE CONF
rain?
Yes, no.
NOTE CONF
Right, in terms of mathematics and the complexity behind it
all, it is quite different, um, the classification.
NOTE CONF
Um, problem predicts an outcome, right?
So for example, you have a spam not spam, cat
NOTE CONF
do images, and some example models use logistic regression, which
in its name it's kind of confusing.
NOTE CONF
You have deci decision trees, neural networks as well, um,
and it outputs a discrete category.
NOTE CONF
For a regression model, like house prices, temperatures, you have
a linear regression, right?
NOTE CONF
Uh, polynomial, which is just an extension of that linear.
Um, you have neural nets as well.
NOTE CONF
So neural nets is, it's a big fan of everyone
because it seems it does everything, depending on how you
NOTE CONF
create those neurons and the layers of, um, of, in,
in your, in your neural net, you can actually get
NOTE CONF
both types of problems that solved.
And then the the yielding, the final outcome, the label,
NOTE CONF
call it label, right?
It's a number of a continuous value between a range
NOTE CONF
perhaps.
Note that um classification generally is finite, right?
NOTE CONF
It depends on how you, how many you say, if
there's only like 4 types.
NOTE CONF
You know, Apple is good, Apple's not ripe yet.
Apple's well done, Apple's just right, you've got 4 labels.
NOTE CONF
Um, you can, you can put that as a, as
a finite case.
NOTE CONF
But for regression, it is uncountable, right?
So the obviously you can lock it down within a
NOTE CONF
certain probability range, um, that's also already highlighted.
But the the idea is that it will give you
NOTE CONF
a continuous range unless constrained, right?
It can still give you this like infinite number, but
NOTE CONF
it's highly improbable, right?
And that's why we have something called distribution uh probability
NOTE CONF
of distribution, right?
Anything can happen, just not really probable.
NOTE CONF
So, OK, so it features one class from one finite,
whether or not sensor reading.
NOTE CONF
To estimate, OK, I've been through all that.
So, a lot of this machine learning, they yield not
NOTE CONF
just a single point answer, right?
They, they yield a distribution with a certainty.
NOTE CONF
Much like how you face in life, right, every decision
you make when you make a choice, you're like, well,
NOTE CONF
I'm kind of confident with this.
I'm not really sure, right, those are, You know, I
NOTE CONF
think conceptually that that's a big difference.
It doesn't just say yes, no to things.
NOTE CONF
It gives you a confidence level.
And depending on what problems that you're dealing with, that
NOTE CONF
confidence level makes a big difference.
If I'm saying that, hey, looking at your, at your
NOTE CONF
images, and your medical scan looks like there's a tumour,
but guess what, I'm not really confident, right, you may
NOTE CONF
actually go, alright, you know what, let's just do another
test.
NOTE CONF
But if you're saying, oh, look, I'm, I've seen this
a lot, right, it's highly probable that you don't have
NOTE CONF
a tumour, you feel a lot more confident with the
decision.
NOTE CONF
So, moving from, like, you know, a deterministic approach to
problem solving, which is like your equation approaches in engineering,
NOTE CONF
like, you know, you do this test and you built
this thing, you know it's gonna fail.
NOTE CONF
You know, and you can calculate that, versus, well we
know on average this is gonna happen with a certain
NOTE CONF
confidence that.
Um, that probability distribution makes a big difference.
NOTE CONF
And obviously it's challenging in in ways because we have
to understand what we're dealing with, it's no longer just
NOTE CONF
a point value, it is a distribution, even if it's
a point.
NOTE CONF
So distribution is very useful, it's not one single point
estimate, but a range of outputs, um, which is called
NOTE CONF
soft limits.
So, I'm sure everyone knows generally what the word means,
NOTE CONF
probability, right?
It's simply the number of favourable outcome over a total
NOTE CONF
possible outcome.
Sometimes it's called the odds, right, the odds of something
NOTE CONF
happening, we understand.
Oh it's on gambling, right?
NOTE CONF
If you're if you're a betting person, you kind of
understand how that works.
NOTE CONF
Um, if not, it may be quite confusing.
The whole field of probability actually came out of that,
NOTE CONF
you know, in the, in, in, in ancient times and
someone's just trying to describe what's the chance of, you
NOTE CONF
know, I die 1 out of 6 faces becoming that
if you roll it 3 times, how do I describe
NOTE CONF
that, cut counting, things like that.
Um, so that's what a distribution, that's what a probability
NOTE CONF
means, and probability distribution is simply all the possible outcomes
with the most favourable outcome being in the centre possibly,
NOTE CONF
right, where you're counting the number of occurrences.
That whole curve is called distribution function, right, so.
NOTE CONF
You have your normal distribution function, which is also known
as a Gaussian distribution function.
NOTE CONF
You've got your other distributions as well, like a log
normal, um, a, um, a binary, um, distribution.
NOTE CONF
And the new case of this, obviously, listed here is
in forecasting rainfalls, for example.
NOTE CONF
So you go, well, what is the chance of having
You know, zero raindrops.
NOTE CONF
It's actually zero chance of no rain, right, will be,
will be a, uh, example answer.
NOTE CONF
But what's the chance, what's the, what's the probability of
raindrops between 22 mils and 30 mils, right?
NOTE CONF
So it's kind of light rain, right?
You, you, from this model, you would say, OK, between
NOTE CONF
that is your area under the curve.
34% of light rain and uh and so forth.
NOTE CONF
So if you ever look at the BOS data, which
is your um, You know, the, the rainfall forecast, you,
NOTE CONF
you scroll through the actual by the hour raindrop.
It sometimes says 10%.
NOTE CONF
10% of what?
Right, so not a lot of, it's not very intuitive.
NOTE CONF
It actually takes a certain level of understanding and go,
oh, it says 10% chance of rain of this uh
NOTE CONF
range of rain drop level.
So it will say, you know, between 0 to 5
NOTE CONF
mil, 10%.
So that's a, you know, that's a pretty low occurrence
NOTE CONF
of, of rain.
And so we use those kind of um rhetorics, I
NOTE CONF
guess the way you describe the problem set in those
works, um you always include the level of confidence in
NOTE CONF
your answer.
It's not just like, is it gonna rain, yes, no.
NOTE CONF
You know, what's the chance of rain, probability.
So what this all means is that um there's a
NOTE CONF
lot more maths than you think.
But um but fortunately, you know, it's all embedded in
NOTE CONF
a library, which is great.
Um, taking that example at the top, you can see
NOTE CONF
if I show you this and say, is it a
dog, you know, your brain is already computing, yes, it's
NOTE CONF
a dog.
But in a, in a computer language, right, you need
NOTE CONF
to let it know, OK, what constitutes to being, A
dog, it computes against all the classes that it's been
NOTE CONF
trained for, maybe a dog, maybe a cat, maybe a.
Horse, cheetah, but then, the most probable one is a
NOTE CONF
dog.
And so at that point, you will have something called
NOTE CONF
a threshold to say, well, if any number comes through
more than 0.6, right, that's like 60% or more, we'll
NOTE CONF
just give that as a single answer, because that's really
what you want.
NOTE CONF
You want to use the machine learning algorithm to make
a decision, right?
NOTE CONF
So it computes all these numbers which adds up to
one, by the way, right, in a finite space of
NOTE CONF
probability, right, you've compacted it, you know, it's saying that,
well, I'm computing this to be 77% to be a
NOTE CONF
dog and so it would yield a label as a
dog.
NOTE CONF
So this is all compact in a way, right, intuitively
you know this, um, but you may not formally think
NOTE CONF
about this process as such.
So You know, when you're classifying things, it, it's, it
NOTE CONF
also yields a probability and the max involved is what
we call a softmax function.
NOTE CONF
We use different functions to, to compute that, and I'll
show you some examples of that.
NOTE CONF
Um, but here listed.
In a neural network for the classification of images, you
NOTE CONF
use something called softmax activation as a final layer, right,
the final layer gives you precisely which, you know, return
NOTE CONF
the highest probable number and call that the label.
In a regression, there's other probabilistic models known like things
NOTE CONF
like Gaussian processes or um you have Basin regressions as
well, to output a distribution over all the possible values,
NOTE CONF
right?
Instead of just 11 point value.
NOTE CONF
So again, these are all sort of the layer behind,
peeling back the, the systems, you have all these um
NOTE CONF
intricate mats that you kind of need to know what
you're selecting, right, again, because as I said, your job
NOTE CONF
here is to apply the machine learning for the, for
the um for the problems that you have.
NOTE CONF
You need not to necessarily go into the maths, but
you need to know the differences between using this function
NOTE CONF
versus that function versus that function.
And perhaps you don't even know what the difference is,
NOTE CONF
but you can compare and contrast the different uh output,
whether or not something's more accurate or something's less accurate.
NOTE CONF
So we're coming down to the crux of this whole
lecture which is about, you know, what what would be,
NOTE CONF
how do we evaluate accuracy, right, in selecting different moving
parts of this, right?
NOTE CONF
So you're assembling a system with a lot of maths
behind it, and you're sort of understanding, OK, um, if
NOTE CONF
I pick this activation function.
Uh, I get that outcome, but is this a better
NOTE CONF
or or worse outcome?
So Here, I've listed different scenarios where you actually wanted
NOTE CONF
to be more confident in one scenario and less in
another.
NOTE CONF
Right?
For example, you have a self-driving car, which gives you
NOTE CONF
a high confidence interval, um, of saying, OK, I, if
I see all this kind of moving parts, I'm gonna
NOTE CONF
say stop, and I'm 100, I'm 99% confident.
That is actually gonna give you a lot more meaningful
NOTE CONF
real world situational outcome than, you know, something that says,
I would say stop but only 55% confidence.
NOTE CONF
So depending on your problem, those arbitrary things are being
locked down already, right, in, in order to develop a
NOTE CONF
machine learning model for self-driving car because human life is
at risk.
NOTE CONF
You need to make sure the competence interval is so
high that, you know, there's only so many chance, you
NOTE CONF
know, one out of, 10,000 tonnes of false positive.
Right?
NOTE CONF
And we'll talk about those metrics.
First is something that stock market prediction, you know, um,
NOTE CONF
for example, giving you a chance of up and down,
but you know, at the end of the day, it's,
NOTE CONF
it's not gonna kill someone per se, right?
Like instantly, it may slowly erode your wealth, but you
NOTE CONF
know, you, you, you want a different parameter to that.
And then some of the, some of the other situations
NOTE CONF
like medical devices, medical tests, you only want a competence
interval of 95 plus.
NOTE CONF
For example, So that's just um another description of that
probability function, but for a continuous range of values.
NOTE CONF
So continuous range is obviously your, you know, Gaussian distribution,
but in a very discrete probability for discrete classes, you
NOTE CONF
have like a bar chart.
OK, and they actually unfortunately have different names to it,
NOTE CONF
right?
One's called probability density function, much like materials, you have
NOTE CONF
the density is a continuous spread, and the other is
a mass function, which is like weighted mass at different
NOTE CONF
points.
So just knowing the terminology to search up in your,
NOTE CONF
in your, you know, the use of Gen AI makes
a big difference.
NOTE CONF
So note that there's a, there's a subtlety there.
OK, we might actually go through and um do some
NOTE CONF
ment metering.
See, um, how you guys are understanding everything.
NOTE CONF
So everyone should be able to scan that, right?
Can you scan that page yet?
NOTE CONF
Mm.
OK, swimming, everyone's scanned it, yeah.
NOTE CONF
This is a Confusing than I thought.
Scanned it, yeah.
NOTE CONF
I'm gonna change screen.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So the question is, um, why is it important for
machine learning model to provide confidence levels with the prediction?
NOTE CONF
Kind of talked about this at length.
So let's see if um Your answers are online.
NOTE CONF
So the first the first answer helps us understand how
certain the model is about the decision.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, sounds sensible.
Second one is it makes the model more complex but
NOTE CONF
doesn't actually change decision making.
Well, not really, because we've described at length again that
NOTE CONF
it does change a lot on how it makes decisions.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Um, that one is, it allows us to adjust actions
based on risk rather than blindly trusting the prediction.
NOTE CONF
Definitely, right?
If you're in a medical situation, yeah, you wanna like
NOTE CONF
get a triple diagnosis just to make sure if that's
a real tumour or not.
NOTE CONF
Versus something like a spam email, like it's not that
detrimental.
NOTE CONF
And then obviously the last one is also incorrect.
It only matters to AI researchers but not the real
NOTE CONF
world application.
So there's a pretty trivial.
NOTE CONF
And the second question.
Mm.
NOTE CONF
Actually a second question.
Whisper 2 when I meet him.
NOTE CONF
Oh.
I need the second question loaded.
NOTE CONF
Oops There's another question I'm prepared.
Um, not really sure what to load, let me, um,
NOTE CONF
get back to you on that one.
But the second question is really, why is it important
NOTE CONF
for machine learning model to provide us, um, Well, the
first question, sorry, what makes prediction using machine learning useful?
NOTE CONF
More, which is generally more useful, so it's really just
testing the first set of um slides that we had.
NOTE CONF
OK.
OK, so, I think this is like one of the
NOTE CONF
better way of representing what we've talked about.
You've by now, you've seen a lot of these names,
NOTE CONF
you know, repeated here and there.
But in, in a lot of ways, right, they're, they're
NOTE CONF
suited in different categories, right?
You have classifications, you have regression, you have supervised learning,
NOTE CONF
and then unsupervised learning.
As I described before already, unsupervised learning is really for
NOTE CONF
pattern detection, so you're looking for new patterns, then you
can sort of look into that furthermore.
NOTE CONF
Supervised learning is when you already have the labels and
that you're yielding, you know, a new bunch of unseen
NOTE CONF
environments to provide those labels.
Logistic regression is what we're probably gonna be looking at
NOTE CONF
in the next few slides, uh, as a sort of
casing point.
NOTE CONF
But then there's also other um models.
So Neural Net, we've described that.
NOTE CONF
Pretty much that does most things, right?
You have random forest, you have Deciree which came, which,
NOTE CONF
you know, Decision tree yields random forest when you assemble
an ensemble of that, and so forth.
NOTE CONF
But, you know, this is a little good reference point
to go, all right, well I have this sort of
NOTE CONF
data in my project.
What am I supposed to do with it?
NOTE CONF
Well, is it a supervised learning problem that I'm dealing
with?
NOTE CONF
Is it a continuous data set that I'm dealing with?
Perhaps I could be looking at these models that I'm
NOTE CONF
gonna need to train up for.
Right, so any of those models you can just call
NOTE CONF
up in psychic Learn.
Type that out, and it'll pull out the parameters, then
NOTE CONF
you can tweak and play around with the parameters to
then go, alright, this is the model result.
NOTE CONF
This is model result 2 with different parameters, and then
your job is to compare and contrast and then describe
NOTE CONF
what just happened.
Right, so that's really the pipeline that you're trying to
NOTE CONF
work towards.
So before I go further, we sort of need to
NOTE CONF
talk about for any supervised learning, uh, situations, you would
effectively need to split your data for training, right, because,
NOTE CONF
you know, you don't want to fit that 100%, you
have 100 ropes, right, using the Apple scenario again.
NOTE CONF
You have 100 apples, but you're not gonna get another
100 apples, right, so the best way is just to
NOTE CONF
split it up and say, you know what, eat 80
apples.
NOTE CONF
And then give me a model, so then you can
test out and forecast the remaining 20 apples and see
NOTE CONF
if it's right or not.
Then we can eat it and see if, you know,
NOTE CONF
what you predict is correct.
So this is called a data split, right, a training
NOTE CONF
testing data split.
There are many ways to split the data.
NOTE CONF
What you do want to do is split at least.
You know, something like 60% training, right, or you can
NOTE CONF
have more obviously depending on how much data you have,
um, but typically around 60 to 80% of your data
NOTE CONF
should be, Use for training and you reserve the last
10, 20% for validation.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And in, in that sort of training set.
NOTE CONF
There are ways of cutting it further, and I'll talk
about that in the very final slide.
NOTE CONF
But here you can see the effects of good splitting
of data would result in either overfitting or underfitting or
NOTE CONF
just right, OK, of your model design.
If you do it, if the model predicts too much,
NOTE CONF
right, of everything, including both the signal and the noise,
it's called overfitting, and it's being too specific.
NOTE CONF
It cannot be generalised, which is your challenge.
But in, on the converse, if you have underfitted models,
NOTE CONF
that means it's too simplistic and it doesn't describe any
nuances between, you know, your system, so it's not doing
NOTE CONF
its job in either case.
So you need to find a good way of splitting
NOTE CONF
data, getting a good accuracy result.
Um, fortunately, all this can be just caught up in
NOTE CONF
a simple function in PyitLearn.
And by now, I think everyone should also learn the
NOTE CONF
art of reading the documentation if you don't already know
how to do that.
NOTE CONF
Um, obviously, co-pilot can help you with understanding that.
If not, you can easily find out, um, the documentation
NOTE CONF
related to this.
In this particular case, we're talking about training test split,
NOTE CONF
so you can just input that from, from Scikit learn,
state 70%.
NOTE CONF
So right here it says 0.7, um, the final random
state is really just a seat number.
NOTE CONF
So if you wanted to make sure next time when
you do some other data set, you want to split
NOTE CONF
it in the same way, right?
You call up random state 10.
NOTE CONF
And then that, that ensures that it does the same
thing.
NOTE CONF
Um, the two things that I'll probably reserve later down,
um, to the last slide is called random and stratified
NOTE CONF
splitting.
Basically it is as a picture shows, right, you could.
NOTE CONF
You could have your data set so then it actually
rotates the different testing segment.
NOTE CONF
So then every time you train that data in fault
one, for example.
NOTE CONF
Right.
The fault one, you have the 1st 200 as a
NOTE CONF
test, the last 800 roles as a training, but then
you repeat this experiment using your last 600 plus the
NOTE CONF
1st 200 as training, and then the middle 200 as
testing, and you rotate that.
NOTE CONF
Your final model then computes an average of those, and
so you get a K fault, which is in this
NOTE CONF
case, 5, right, a 5-fold cross validation.
Um, process, and it's supposed to give you, um, better
NOTE CONF
results, depending on how many data, um, routes we're talking
about.
NOTE CONF
So we talked a bit about this already, we have
the easy to call functions, everything is like that.
NOTE CONF
You just listed XY test.
Um, obviously this is an object-oriented language where you can
NOTE CONF
see the functions are being caught, right?
And so you're yielding 4 parameters, X train, X, XY
NOTE CONF
train, Y test, and obviously the training, um, parameters are
paired up together for your model.
NOTE CONF
This should be pretty self-explanatory.
Um, the final random state option is really to ensure
NOTE CONF
if you were to repeat this experiment, um, different days,
different computers, it should give you the same results.
NOTE CONF
So this is another summative table that kinda gives you
some guidance into what approaches to best use um to
NOTE CONF
get a good starting point when developing a model.
When you have a very large data set of more
NOTE CONF
than 100,000 samples, or 100,000 rolls, you can just do
a simple split, right, because you have plenty of data
NOTE CONF
to play around.
Um, and just splitting it, say, OK, 80/20, 1st 80,
NOTE CONF
last 20, would, would do the job.
In a smaller situation, in a smaller data set, which
NOTE CONF
you'll probably all be in, right, um.
You need to start using K faults and cross validation
NOTE CONF
just to get better efficiency with that limited 5000 votes
that you have, for example.
NOTE CONF
Right, so if you have 10,000 rolls of sample or
maybe even less, like, 400, you know, 500 roles, you
NOTE CONF
definitely need to consider using K uh fault of maybe
like 5, 10, nothing more than 20 because then if
NOTE CONF
every block is too little, there's not much of a
point.
NOTE CONF
Um, so something around those values will maximise the use
of your data and reduce the variance between them.
NOTE CONF
Um, In a lot of medical imaging data set, you
have this bias.
NOTE CONF
You have this bias of like, oh, I see tumour,
but it's only 5, 10 images out of, The 500
NOTE CONF
scans I have that doesn't seem to have tumours.
So it's not a good representation of what is a
NOTE CONF
positive case and what is a negative case.
The negative case of having no tumour has a lot
NOTE CONF
more images.
And so whatever your trained model could bias towards seeing
NOTE CONF
that, you know, it will just assume everything's like, oh,
there's no tumour.
NOTE CONF
But in fact, you know, there, there could be a
tumour, but you just, there is not a lot of
NOTE CONF
examples of what a tumour looks like.
Right, so in those situations and in balance set, you
NOTE CONF
really need to use other approaches.
So K fault stratified, um, approaches, but also weighted function.
NOTE CONF
So we'll talk about that next week, how to create
synthetic data, how to put more weighting on the 10
NOTE CONF
occurrences that you've seen, and then bias towards that.
And for your time series, unless you're doing sort of
NOTE CONF
finance, um, maybe you're doing material testing where there's a
time component, um, a rolling window could be useful.
NOTE CONF
Um, but some people, you know, in, in the finance
world, you're doing machine learning, people often like to do
NOTE CONF
a test, like they like to train it, right?
And then they like to do a test, and then
NOTE CONF
they like to do a forward forecast.
So those are called backward testing, right?
NOTE CONF
You're looking in time data.
From this time onwards, but then, at some point you
NOTE CONF
want to basically run your model and run it forward,
but not actually make any traits or something, so then
NOTE CONF
you can see how effective that is.
Um, it's just inherent in the system, so there's something
NOTE CONF
called leakages potentially, um, but those are very sample, How
should I say it?
NOTE CONF
These are very um problem centric issues, right, and it's
not as simple as just comparing a score and say,
NOTE CONF
oh look, this score is lower than that, you know,
given the, given a certain problem set, you may want
NOTE CONF
the score of that to be lower than higher, or
vice versa.
NOTE CONF
So again, training data set, um, easily callable as a
function, um, in terms of the scoring metrics, again, that
NOTE CONF
can be easily called up and we'll talk a bit
more about accuracy score, precision score, recall score, um, from
NOTE CONF
this point onwards.
Before we go on to that though, um, just a
NOTE CONF
quick recap, just a quick reminder that.
For a lot of this classification problem sets, you have
NOTE CONF
different activation functions, right?
The, the common ones that will be used in classification
NOTE CONF
problem sets is a sigmoid uh function or softmax function,
we talked about that.
NOTE CONF
Um, basically Softmax is an extension of the Sigmoid, but
you can see how it's creating this continuous curve.
NOTE CONF
Um, and basically allows you to say, oh, well, if
my value is on this side, it's probably in class
NOTE CONF
1.
If my value is on that other side, it's class
NOTE CONF
0, right?
And then you add up the classes and it gives
NOTE CONF
you that.
Um, every classification problem can generally be broken down to
NOTE CONF
a binary system.
It's either Apple's tasty or not really.
NOTE CONF
And then the not really is like, how not really,
like really bad or, you know, slightly more than.
NOTE CONF
Bad, so now you have like a 3 class system,
but using two binary distribution as a as a way
NOTE CONF
of sorting it, um.
So that's just stuff breaks it down further.
NOTE CONF
But it basically that just says that if you understand
how to how to describe two, then you can do
NOTE CONF
that for multiple classes as well.
So activation functions are just a mathematical equation that gives
NOTE CONF
you a distribution, um it gives you a uh probability,
and so it also constraints it to, Either or, right,
NOTE CONF
and that little gradient in between is what those um
differences are.
NOTE CONF
So you've got the sigmoid, which is like a um
like S curve, right, you've got the 10, hyperbolic 0
NOTE CONF
function, which has a lot sharper drop-offs.
But um those other things that I put in boxes
NOTE CONF
is for neural networks.
For this particular situation, we're just concerned with classification, it's
NOTE CONF
the two, it's the two boxes we have here, um,
very similar, um, probably not, doesn't make a lot of
NOTE CONF
sense to you at the moment.
OK, so, um.
NOTE CONF
Classification.
How do you evaluate the performance of your, of your
NOTE CONF
model?
Well, in the, in the Apple case, right, we know
NOTE CONF
what is tasty, because you ate 80 apples already, and
you know what, what the, the tasty apple would look
NOTE CONF
like, how much they weigh, um, and also how red
they look like.
NOTE CONF
So that truth, right, the label truth is your ground
truth.
NOTE CONF
So we have this term ground truth you're reading the
textbook.
NOTE CONF
You may actually want to be able to search that
term.
NOTE CONF
You know, when you see Gra trip, you know that
is what it's referring to is the objective, understood label
NOTE CONF
of the system.
The model itself predicts something from it.
NOTE CONF
So the predictor is what is the classifier is predicting,
um, and depending if it's predicting it truly or not,
NOTE CONF
then you have something called like true positive, true negative,
and so forth.
NOTE CONF
I think this, this paragraph is confusing as, but this
is a better, Better, um, showcase, so I don't really
NOTE CONF
have this.
It's unfortunate.
NOTE CONF
So right here, right, I'll fix this slight deck.
But it's supposed to be the flag of Panama.
NOTE CONF
And why do I say that?
Because.
NOTE CONF
Panama's flag, if anyone's seen anything.
It's got the colour boxes as well as the stars,
NOTE CONF
right, so let me see if I can find, maybe
next picture I have it.
NOTE CONF
unfortunate Um, OK, so it's called confusion matrix.
I'm not sure if it's just a pun, someone created
NOTE CONF
the name, it's confusing as and they call it that
name just for the fun of it.
NOTE CONF
Um, but if you read it slowly, right, you have
the grand truth, which denotes as C, right?
NOTE CONF
So C equals to 0 is negative.
C equals to 1 is positive, so it is it
NOTE CONF
tasty, right, is your apple tasty?
No, that's C equals 0.
NOTE CONF
Right, and then C equals 1 is is positive, right.
The predictor, which is the model that you develop, C
NOTE CONF
hat.
Gives you two labels potentially, right, because we're looking at
NOTE CONF
the two classes.
So is it tasty?
NOTE CONF
Yes, right, but did the predictor say it's tasty?
Yes, well, that's great, you know, it's correctly predicted what
NOTE CONF
should happen, right?
Which is in the bottom right.
NOTE CONF
But in the case where is it tasty, yes.
But did the predictor says it's tasty?
NOTE CONF
No.
So it's actually giving you a false positive, a false
NOTE CONF
negative, right?
So, you can see here, right, this little example.
NOTE CONF
Is a, it's a very typical machine learning problem where
they they they do the the handwritten notes, um your
NOTE CONF
your integers, so it's trying to predict what value, what
number, um, you know, you're writing.
NOTE CONF
And in a case where it's predicting the number 5,
right, for example, predicting digits from and written number 5.
NOTE CONF
Bottom right is correctly predicting 5s are fives.
In the other case, it's correctly predicting that 5s are
NOTE CONF
not 5, right, so 8 is not 57 is not
53 is not 5.
NOTE CONF
And so those values makes a big um so once
you note that down, you can create the matrix you
NOTE CONF
need to compute how accurate your model is.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So take some time to sort of digest this, and
I think the digestion of this needs some examples, obviously.
NOTE CONF
Assuming that you have a good understanding.
Right, and I, I'll show you some extent.
NOTE CONF
Alright, of which number falls into which, so if you
have 100 experiments.
NOTE CONF
And then you go, right, for the first experiment.
This is the correct label, and then the predictor predicts,
NOTE CONF
no, the right label, the same label, you count that,
you tally that up.
NOTE CONF
And you put them into the quadrant.
What you then get is like 4 numbers.
NOTE CONF
Based on the 4 numbers, you can compute the various
different uh highlighted values on the right, which are then
NOTE CONF
part of your scoring metrics.
So for specificity, right, how specific the model is, is
NOTE CONF
able to tell something is correct or not correct.
Is based on the total number of true negatives, right,
NOTE CONF
over the total number of true negatives plus false positives,
right.
NOTE CONF
Recall, OK, sensitivity, so how often it can tell uh
the correct one, from the rest of everything.
NOTE CONF
I True positive over the total of false negative plus
true positives.
NOTE CONF
So that is exactly why I put it in those
quadrants because you can see the denominator takes the values
NOTE CONF
across and this kind of simplify your memory of how
things worked.
NOTE CONF
OK.
The two tick boxes obviously are the correct values, so,
NOTE CONF
you know, the model is doing what it's supposed to
do.
NOTE CONF
Correctly predicting something, correctly predicting or not well, predicting what
isn't.
NOTE CONF
OK?
And then the other quadrants, the two crosses, is your
NOTE CONF
self mistakes, right?
That the, the model is incorrectly predicting.
NOTE CONF
Positive or what should be negative and vice versa.
Precision is how well it's um it's predicting, right, obviously
NOTE CONF
going down the column, and then finally, combining some of
these scoring, you can yield something called an accuracy number,
NOTE CONF
OK?
Now, just to confuse you even more.
NOTE CONF
Those aren't really your scoring numbers, right, like, very like
in the last hour or so I've basically posed this
NOTE CONF
question.
When you're creating a machine learning model, how do you
NOTE CONF
know it's good enough?
Right, how do you know it's good enough based on
NOTE CONF
various factors, right, based on the problems that you're dealing
with, right, is it a medical situation, is it a,
NOTE CONF
is it a um, Is it a driving autonomous car
situation?
NOTE CONF
Is it a spam email situation?
Right, those different problem sets dictate different levels of confidence,
NOTE CONF
right?
And then after that point, assuming that you process your
NOTE CONF
data properly and do the training and generate your model
in a, in a proper fashion, then you can use
NOTE CONF
scoring values like this to then say, OK, well if
I do it in this fashion, these are the scores
NOTE CONF
I get.
If I do it in this other fashion, Then this
NOTE CONF
is another set of scores I get.
Comparing those scores allows you to say, OK, this is
NOTE CONF
actually a better model, and so we can use that
model from that point onwards.
NOTE CONF
So you can see there's already many layers in the
design process.
NOTE CONF
Um, but when I, before, before this slide, I was
just showing you effectively.
NOTE CONF
4 highlight at once, right?
The accuracy value sometimes can be um.
NOTE CONF
Can be misguided.
Because it doesn't give you a good resolution between the
NOTE CONF
precision and the recall value.
In some situations, you want to be more precise, right?
NOTE CONF
Be able to tell what it is should be.
In other situations, you wanna like, not make a false
NOTE CONF
positive um estimate, right?
So like again medical data, just because you see a
NOTE CONF
shadow, can't just go around cutting people up.
Because it's gonna cost them, it's gonna, you know, there's
NOTE CONF
psychological issues, so you want to be more precise in
one situation and and less than the other ones.
NOTE CONF
So the F1 score, the harmonic average, is actually a
better way of describing, The average score So, you know,
NOTE CONF
moving forward, when you're doing model comparison.
Use the, obviously, you know, or there's a generator using
NOTE CONF
the libraries, write a function to go evaluate my model
based on, right, those four factors or 5 here, right?
NOTE CONF
And then you will have a matrix to then compare
and describe, right?
NOTE CONF
Why Model 3 is better than Model 5, because the
harmonic value is actually higher and so it's suitable for
NOTE CONF
this particular situation and problem set and so forth.
And then try and look into um what you can
NOTE CONF
optimise.
So here's some numbers um.
NOTE CONF
I think this was, this is definitely not apples because
there's like 1000 iteration of eating apples, but it will
NOTE CONF
be like some, some randomly generated problem set, um, then
you have the 4 numbers here.
NOTE CONF
The question then becomes, OK, well, can you compute what
the values of each of those.
NOTE CONF
And so if you just apply it to formulas, you,
you basically get an accuracy of 95% for this model,
NOTE CONF
um, but the harmonic F1 score is actually 88%.
You know, all this is very independent and abstract because
NOTE CONF
there is no context.
But if you assume, presumably if you have another model
NOTE CONF
created and that gives you a 99% accuracy, Right?
What does that now mean?
NOTE CONF
Or maybe you you could be overpopulating or overfitting your
models to the dataset.
NOTE CONF
So that's when you go back into looking at your
data processing process, or maybe the precision goes down as
NOTE CONF
the recall value goes up.
Is that suitable for your given for your given problem,
NOTE CONF
right, for your given challenge.
So when you have multiple different models with scoring, that's
NOTE CONF
when you can say, OK, this, this kind of makes
sense, this doesn't make sense.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of interpretation in that, um, but generally
that's a stack up, OK?
NOTE CONF
So, we talked about different models and it's, you know,
only makes sense when you have different models, changing it,
NOTE CONF
um, why does it matter?
Well, when you have different models, what you're effectively saying
NOTE CONF
is that the way to make decisions are different.
So here we have 4 different diagrams, right, 4 different
NOTE CONF
images showing the SVC uh approach, right.
Um, but with a different kernel.
NOTE CONF
So forget about the naming, just call it model 123
and 4, but it's basically different mathematical function behind it.
NOTE CONF
And you can see based on those mathematical functions.
The way it's interpreting what is a blue dot, what
NOTE CONF
is a red dot, what is a, a, a white
dot, the boundary conditions are very different, right?
NOTE CONF
And so, you know, it makes a big difference if
you're those starts in the sort of.
NOTE CONF
Sort of apex of those colours, right, like in some
situation, it will be classed as a red dot, in
NOTE CONF
other situations it will be classed as a blue dot,
right?
NOTE CONF
Those little boundary values makes a difference to your to
your confusion matrix.
NOTE CONF
And so part of your job is to evaluate what's
a suitable model for your problem set.
NOTE CONF
OK, so we have already 4 conditions, right, if you
just go through this again.
NOTE CONF
You have your representation, you have your data representation, assuming
you have a good set of data that is representative
NOTE CONF
of the real world.
And that you process this properly by transforming the data
NOTE CONF
set into something that makes sense.
And then after that point, you would then You would
NOTE CONF
then apply the right training algorithm and right training slip
for the given data set.
NOTE CONF
Then you would have the actual um mathematical model that
you pick and choose to do the training on.
NOTE CONF
And then after that point, you would then say, OK,
this model is better than that model.
NOTE CONF
For all these uh situations.
OK, so, so there's there's a, there's a long list
NOTE CONF
of conditions already stacking up, um, but in general, the
last, last thing, unfortunately.
NOTE CONF
Um, is your threshold condition?
So right now we've made a bunch of decisions, but
NOTE CONF
what's a good enough decision?
OK, it's not a good enough model, it's a good
NOTE CONF
enough decision.
When you're talking about A threshold number, it's like the
NOTE CONF
spam email situation that we talked about, right?
Based on the work choice in the email presented, this
NOTE CONF
looks kinda like spamming.
OK, great.
NOTE CONF
It gives you a probability, right, it says 65% spamming.
OK, well, do I want to label this as spam
NOTE CONF
email.
Yes, no.
NOTE CONF
Should it be 70% or above, only at that point
do I block it and put it in junk mail.
NOTE CONF
Right, how often have you signed on to some random
pub crawl, you know, sign on foodie discount?
NOTE CONF
To then only have that email going to your spam
email.
NOTE CONF
Right, that's a, that's a real world usage of like,
OK, well, maybe a threshold was a bit too low.
NOTE CONF
If I set that threshold to be higher, then it,
you know, that particular email will come through my inbox
NOTE CONF
properly, whereas the other one, you know, Nigerian prince trying
to sell me crypto with, with whatever just for Easter,
NOTE CONF
that's definitely spent, right?
So the threshold makes a big difference and you can
NOTE CONF
see here in the, in the breakdown, having a um,
Having a value, having different sort of conditions in that
NOTE CONF
matrix will give you different uh parameters, and I think
it's better represented in this next one.
NOTE CONF
So the best way to really evaluate thresholds um in
the, In the context of your true negatives and true
NOTE CONF
positives and recall values, is using something called a receiver
operating characteristic.
NOTE CONF
Now I'll let you all read up on ROC at
home on how it came about.
NOTE CONF
It actually has a pretty interesting story, which originated from
World War 2.
NOTE CONF
And it's basically back then, um, people look at radars,
they said blip on the screen, like, you know, beep,
NOTE CONF
beep, beep, and depending on how frequent it beeps, right,
and how, you know, reporting says, oh yeah, there's definitely
NOTE CONF
a plane coming inside, right?
That actually gave rise to this concept of ROC.
NOTE CONF
And so the ROC is really saying how, how, how
often do we say, how often do we read a
NOTE CONF
true positive case versus a false positive case.
So TPR right, true positive rate.
NOTE CONF
Equals your sensitivity recall value, so what we did the
calculation before is that value.
NOTE CONF
The false positive rate FPR is 1 minus the specificity
value, so you can go back to that formula and
NOTE CONF
apply and compute that.
The curve here, right, is at different threshold values, right,
NOTE CONF
from 10% to 15% to 20%, blah blah blah all
the way to 100%.
NOTE CONF
We then give you a curve of responses, right, so
it's how sensitive it is to um to your system.
NOTE CONF
And the best way to compare between models, right, you
can see the models are represented in the different colours.
NOTE CONF
The diagonal curve here is basically a random classifier.
It's like tossing dies, like tossing a coin, you know,
NOTE CONF
you can't tell if the, if the model actually tells
you or forecasts something correctly.
NOTE CONF
That's your baseline.
Anything more than your baseline, showcase that it's probably a
NOTE CONF
good classifier.
The very top line, right, the purple one is your
NOTE CONF
perfect classifier which does not exist, because in life there's
always a trade-off.
NOTE CONF
You're always trading off on how often it can pull
the positive out, but at the same time, you know,
NOTE CONF
what's the chance of it saying that, you know, everything
is just one.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Cause then it will, it will 100% capture, like if
NOTE CONF
I give you that Apple uh example again, how tasty
is this uh apple?
NOTE CONF
Well, it's great, you know, and it just keeps saying
it's great.
NOTE CONF
Of course it's capturing all the tasty apples.
But what about all the other non-tasty apple, the really
NOTE CONF
sour ones, the overripe ones.
Those are false positives.
NOTE CONF
So either, either extreme, now obviously the converse is saying
that none of the apples are great.
NOTE CONF
It captures all the other sour apples, great, but then
it also miscalculated the good ones.
NOTE CONF
So there's a trade-off between the two, and looking under
the area of the curve is your best way of
NOTE CONF
knowing if a model is good.
OK, so just a recap.
NOTE CONF
We've got a model.
From the model, we look at the label data, the
NOTE CONF
ground truth, and then the predicted truth, which is your
C hat.
NOTE CONF
Based on that, you would tally up how often it
gets it right, how often it gets wrong, you create
NOTE CONF
the confusion matrix.
From the confusion matrix, we can then calculate a few
NOTE CONF
parameters like accuracy numbers, recall values, um, specificity, and also
precision, right?
NOTE CONF
From that, we can then apply different threshold conditions and
then generate these curves, right, and these are called ROC
NOTE CONF
curves.
And then from this ROC curve, we compute the area
NOTE CONF
underneath the curves to then yield the area under the
curve.
NOTE CONF
And using that as an ultimate sort of evaluator, we
can then say, our model with a given set of
NOTE CONF
thresholds, right, is probably doing a pretty good job over
this other model with the same conditions, because that curve
NOTE CONF
is higher to the left top left corner, right?
Confusing, yeah.
NOTE CONF
It's a bit of a layup, but.
Just goes to show is not as simple as hitting
NOTE CONF
a key.
Um.
NOTE CONF
So really, your job is to say, what, what are
we optimising things for, right?
NOTE CONF
You have false positive.
Obviously model predicts positively, but it's actually negative.
NOTE CONF
But then false negative is the opposite, it's model predicts
negative, but it's actually positive.
NOTE CONF
They're both incorrect, the point is.
But what is the cost we're talking about here?
NOTE CONF
If you want to optimise for precision, again, precision, you
can just proxy that to medical situations, right?
NOTE CONF
You, you don't wanna like cut into random people for
no random reasons at all, just because you, you see
NOTE CONF
a dot on the, on the scan.
Um, You know, you want to optimise for precision.
NOTE CONF
That's your first case.
The cost of false positive is more than false negatives.
NOTE CONF
OK, so you're gonna get it wrong, but what's the
cost of getting it wrong based on false positives, OK?
NOTE CONF
On the opposite end of the spectrum, you can optimise
for recall, right, which is the cost of false negative
NOTE CONF
is more than the cost of false positives.
OK, so, predicting propensity to buy certain things.
NOTE CONF
OK, a quick purchase call, uh, this is, this is
in reference to making a sales call, right?
NOTE CONF
If you have a client list, you could just make
a sales call because you assume that they may buy.
NOTE CONF
But you got it wrong, like they, they don't have
money, you know, Nigerian prints doing spam emails.
NOTE CONF
They want the second one, right?
Just, just remember that.
NOTE CONF
They just want to spam everyone, right?
Maybe there will be a hit rate.
NOTE CONF
Because what's, what's worse?
Well, the person just ignores the email, right, you send
NOTE CONF
one extra email.
The cost isn't too much, OK?
NOTE CONF
And then in the real world scenario, right, you want
the goldilock moment where it is a good balance between
NOTE CONF
the false positive and false negative.
So the actual, the shape of the curve could say
NOTE CONF
something about, even though you have different area under the
curve being the same.
NOTE CONF
But the shape of the curve could look different, you
want to be able to say, OK, this shape is
NOTE CONF
suitable for my given problem set.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So here's a, here's an actual real curve, right, not,
not the spammy, Nigerian prints kind of thing, but you
NOTE CONF
can see here are three models, right, red, black, and
green.
NOTE CONF
Which one is actually better?
It's really hard to say, right, because A, we don't
NOTE CONF
know the problem here.
Right, we, assuming that the data treatments, it's, it's correct
NOTE CONF
and that you've trained the data in, in a good
fashion, the representation is good, but you still need to
NOTE CONF
understand the context of what is the problem here.
What is it challenging.
NOTE CONF
If you have a good condition on that, then you
can say, OK, well, given that's the context.
NOTE CONF
Maybe the red one is good enough.
Because you know, a, that's kind of looking to be
NOTE CONF
more on the left side, the area under the curve
without doing a lot of the compute looks maybe more
NOTE CONF
than the black one and the green one.
So based on AUC.
NOTE CONF
It has probably the higher value.
But is that, is that good enough in terms of
NOTE CONF
the threshold conditions?
Right?
NOTE CONF
So there there's never really a clear winner.
By this stage, it's all about judgement.
NOTE CONF
It's like based on this judgement, these are the trade-offs
I'm willing to make.
NOTE CONF
And based on those trade-offs, you know, it's good enough
or not.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So this is basically a clue to when you're presenting
NOTE CONF
your report by the end of the term, right?
We don't want to just say, OK, this is the
NOTE CONF
best, this is the best model.
We don't expect words like that.
NOTE CONF
We just wanna hear, know, like realistically you'll have to
say, this model is good enough for this job because
NOTE CONF
of those reasons, whereas this other one, whilst it can
do this and this and that, it's not, It's not
NOTE CONF
specific enough for what we want, and so forth.
Question.
NOTE CONF
How does the area under the curve show the signal?
Single value performance.
NOTE CONF
So a single value performance measures.
Oh, so, so, as in it's a single metrics that
NOTE CONF
you're using.
So it gives you a number, right, it gives you
NOTE CONF
a, it gives you an area under the curve, like
0.6, whereas the red line is like 0.75.
NOTE CONF
So it's a single number, single numerical value.
Right, the, the, the area under the curve is a
NOTE CONF
value that you can compare between models that will give
you some clue, additional clue, yeah, I guess it's poorly
NOTE CONF
worded from my side, but that's what I mean, it's
a, it's a one number that you can say, oh
NOTE CONF
look, it's good.
Because of, you still need to fill in the because
NOTE CONF
of, right, as a, as a long form explanation to
it.
NOTE CONF
But it's definitely more meaningful than the accuracy number and
the sensitivity number and the F1 scores and so forth,
NOTE CONF
OK?
So all of this does not exist in vacuum, it
NOTE CONF
needs context, which is really the biggest challenge here, right?
So fortunately, again, thank God to to people writing, um,
NOTE CONF
you know.
Libraries are ready, it's all callable functions.
NOTE CONF
So here's, um, here's something that was generated using chat
GPT.
NOTE CONF
Obviously, GAI to the rescue.
Um, but you can, you can ask it enough, like,
NOTE CONF
you know, give me a templated, um, function that I
can call, you know, given a certain data set to
NOTE CONF
then compute the ROC curves, as well as the area
under the curve.
NOTE CONF
And you'll pull in those two functions, import ROC curve
function, um, sorry, library, um, and also the ROC area
NOTE CONF
under the curve score, which is basically your Skit learn
matrix, it's in that package.
NOTE CONF
I, I should also make a note now that I
get, um, so the opportunity.
NOTE CONF
You can compute all this independent of it, but you
can also create a pipeline in the system to then
NOTE CONF
go compare those values, sorry, compare these models based on
this metrics.
NOTE CONF
The default setting is actually looking at accuracy number, um,
and I don't think it actually looks at F1 score,
NOTE CONF
but there will be um, There will be tutorials to
sort of driving the point that you can set in
NOTE CONF
whatever metrics you want, put that in the pipeline and
say when you're doing the compute, change these variables and
NOTE CONF
optimise these variables based on this scoring.
And at that point, you want to say, all right,
NOTE CONF
I want to evaluate my model based on F1 score,
area under the curve, and maybe sensitivity.
NOTE CONF
So if those are the three you want, you want
to set that in your pipeline, then it will do
NOTE CONF
the, it will do the compute for you.
And so once you, once you design your pipeline well,
NOTE CONF
you can just hit it and then go in and
then come back and you should have a optimised model
NOTE CONF
and be able to then explain why.
That model is the way it is, right, but anyways,
NOTE CONF
in this case, you can see what I just described
before.
NOTE CONF
It's computing based on the example ground truth number, and
then the predictive values.
NOTE CONF
It then computes the confusion matrix in the background, computes
the FPR and the TPR, um, based on your different
NOTE CONF
thresholds, right?
It then computes a table, and that table is then
NOTE CONF
mapped.
As your ROC curve, and then from that it computes
NOTE CONF
the area under the curve by integration, which is now,
you know, 0.72 in this case.
NOTE CONF
OK, so, so those, those mechanical steps shouldn't be too
difficult for you to understand.
NOTE CONF
You've all done calculus, you understand like, you know, basically
just around the curve, um.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
Alright, what's the time?
NOTE CONF
Half an hour.
OK, so this will be the final slide, I think,
NOTE CONF
um, but this is to comment back to the very
beginning, when we talked about different data sets, right?
NOTE CONF
When we're handling different data sets, um, there's treatment to
data sets, you're cutting them up to training data set
NOTE CONF
and testing data set.
There's something called the K fault, which we touched based
NOTE CONF
on, and then the cross validation is really how you
fault that down.
NOTE CONF
So this is a, I guess this is the same
depiction of what that green diagram we had before.
NOTE CONF
You've got your data set, it's moving through the time
points, um.
NOTE CONF
You know, I think it's quite self-explanatory.
The way you call this thing up, um, again, it's
NOTE CONF
in the pipeline, right?
So, I'm introducing all this terminology because in the real
NOTE CONF
use case, you just call up the function from Pyit
learn.
NOTE CONF
You plug in what model you want, you tell it
what parameter to train up, and then what condition you
NOTE CONF
also apply.
There's a really good explanation on cross validation.
NOTE CONF
Um, in the documentation.
So I advise everyone to read up on that and
NOTE CONF
move this around.
But you can, you can basically Google that up.
NOTE CONF
Um, no doubt you'll, you'll definitely look into that because
as you're sort of applying this, um, pipeline, there will
NOTE CONF
be various different sub-parametters that you need to then learn.
So how many times you want to, like, for example,
NOTE CONF
the percentage, right, of your training set, how many iterations
you want.
NOTE CONF
Do you want to have it randomised?
Do you not want to have it randomised?
NOTE CONF
Now, by randomising, I'm saying that the boxing here, so
you can see, there's 5 different circles, boxing sequences, right,
NOTE CONF
in a randomised fashion, you may actually pick out bits
and pieces from different parts.
NOTE CONF
And what that means is that you're really trying to
maximise the variation in your data set, in your sort
NOTE CONF
of training approach.
Because sometimes, like a hidden pattern could be things come
NOTE CONF
and go in a sort of, um, periodic situation.
So if you just pick out the periodicity where something
NOTE CONF
doesn't occur, like moon faces, right?
Oh, you know, if you're looking at the tide, right,
NOTE CONF
water tide and wave tide, that is correlated to the
to the moon phase, we all know that, right, for
NOTE CONF
anyone who goes surfing or fishing, you know, that's a,
that's a given knowledge.
NOTE CONF
Um, but if you're just trying to understand, ah, you
know, when does the boy moves up and down, well,
NOTE CONF
there's a seasonality that is embedded in the data, and
if you don't use randomised data, right, you're gonna capture
NOTE CONF
that and and overtrain your model.
And so your model wouldn't be accurate in terms of
NOTE CONF
description to when something happens.
Right, so those are situations where you need to consider,
NOTE CONF
should I randomise my um my training set or not?
And I think.
NOTE CONF
OK, so in summary, um, whilst we did not go
through the whole drill of downloading CSV information from Kegle,
NOTE CONF
you can all go through that, but we did describe
how, um, the data set, how a typical data set
NOTE CONF
are arranged, at least for something that is a non-image,
right?
NOTE CONF
Something that is, um, More commonly a custom sort of
input.
NOTE CONF
So you, you've got your numerical values, maybe some sort
of label data, that's organised in a CSV format.
NOTE CONF
If you're dealing with like sound bytes, that's gonna be
very different.
NOTE CONF
Uh, images are gonna be very different as well.
But for most cases, CSV will be your typical, uh,
NOTE CONF
file type, data source, and that, Different columns represent different
features.
NOTE CONF
Those features are AKA dimensions, um, they can be labelled,
meaning that you can output things into those.
NOTE CONF
You can also be using that to output a new
column of some sort, um, and so, if you're predicting
NOTE CONF
things that are already as a label, that's really your
supervised training.
NOTE CONF
Um, for things that you have completely no idea what's
happening, that's like an unsupervised training approach, uh, you're discovering
NOTE CONF
a pattern, that's really what you're doing.
Um, from that point onwards, we talked about ground truth,
NOTE CONF
right, for classification models anyway.
And then from that ground truth, we evaluate how accurate
NOTE CONF
a model predicts something, right, which is a C hat.
From all those numbers, you can then generate a confusion
NOTE CONF
matrix, which then gives you all the scores you need
to then generate your ROC curves.
NOTE CONF
From your ROC curves, you can then do the compute
for your area under the curve, and bringing all that
NOTE CONF
together, you can make some sense about how good your
black box model is.
NOTE CONF
Um, the missing context is obviously the problems that you're
dealing with and also what other models you have.
NOTE CONF
Um, and then once you understand what you're dealing with,
you can just simply call them, call your functions from
NOTE CONF
Ski Learn.
Um, generating those performance matrix.
NOTE CONF
So it, it's probably pays, um, you know, I should
probably say in this week when you're working with that
NOTE CONF
in your tutorial question, try and write functions that you
can just repeat call, because as you're dealing with this
NOTE CONF
this week, right?
Subsequent week we'll just rely on some other thing.
NOTE CONF
But if you have those functions called up, then in
your, in your final, um, project, you can just call,
NOTE CONF
OK, compute.
And compare contrast function, right, and that will just take
NOTE CONF
in a list of your models that you've wrote, and
then give you a standardised table showing you the different
NOTE CONF
values and then you can copy and put this in
your report and so forth.
NOTE CONF
Um, Yeah.
That's it, I think, I think this is, this is
NOTE CONF
the end of um this week's lecture.
Any questions?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
No.
NOTE CONF
Alright, so, good job everyone.
We finish a bit early, but um if you have
NOTE CONF
any questions to come down and ask.
All the tutorial questions is online as well, so, so
NOTE CONF
make sure you just go through that, um, Before your
lecture, uh, before your tutorials.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Cool, thanks.
NOTE CONF
Hey, hey, how are you?
Not too bad.
NOTE CONF
um, dealing with the data set has a lot of
people.
NOTE CONF
You might have multiple rules like A, B, and C
characteristics like that.
NOTE CONF
If you have outputs in the unsupervised, do you just
do or would you treat them all just it's hard
NOTE CONF
to say because sometimes there may be interactions if you,
if you have, um, say for example.
NOTE CONF
If you're buying a car, right, you, you have a
bunch of car sales data, and you know, the, the
NOTE CONF
make of it, the year of it, the colour of
it, you've got your mileage of it.
NOTE CONF
And you're trying to predict not just the sales price,
but also the maintenance costs and the running costs, right?
NOTE CONF
Does that make a big difference?
Well, I would say that your make and the year
NOTE CONF
and the running, uh, mileage are correlated to the maintenance
costs.
NOTE CONF
So at that point, you're gonna have to look at
the correlation curve.
NOTE CONF
You're gonna have to look at each of those parameters
and put it in a massive pairwise distribution to, to
NOTE CONF
look at if it's correlated.
And you want to ideally find things that are factors
NOTE CONF
that are orthogonal, so they are independent ways of representing
your system, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, and there's something called a PCA, which is principal
component analysis, which basically takes your, takes your convoluted, you
NOTE CONF
know, input data set where some parameters are representing both
both cases to dissect that and go, oh well, I'm
NOTE CONF
looking at half of this input.
To predict that other thing and so forth.
NOTE CONF
But in, you know, in a very simple case, you,
yes, you want, you may want to just ignore some
NOTE CONF
of them and predict that, but then, you know, do
you then repeat that and predict the next column because
NOTE CONF
it might be overtrained for just that situation.
So it's not a simple answer to that, but you,
NOTE CONF
the general process will be to decouple them, right, by
doing a PCA, reduce the dimensionality, and then do the
NOTE CONF
compute on that.
At that point it's very abstract because your axes are
NOTE CONF
no longer price of, you know, price of car or
the make of car, it's not, it's not gonna be
NOTE CONF
one of those, it's a latent, it's a latent hidden
dimension.
NOTE CONF
explains it.
is that it's not a single answer.
NOTE CONF
I get that it's so abstract at that point that
you just have to trust the math because it's like
NOTE CONF
saying imagine a 5 dimension object.
You can imagine 3, you can imagine 4, which is
NOTE CONF
a movie.
But then like, you know, that's when the purest of
NOTE CONF
maths.
Like I And you have you just kind of shuffle
NOTE CONF
it.
You you can't because you don't know how to explain
NOTE CONF
it.
You want to layer up slowly.
NOTE CONF
So then at some point you go, oh, wait a
minute, from this point to this point, this is what
NOTE CONF
I, I was intending.
But then this answer doesn't make sense.
NOTE CONF
So even though you could just shut them all, but
you want to layer it stage by stage so that
NOTE CONF
you can explain.
Yeah, yeah, I'm also thinking about the different model where
NOTE CONF
you have all your datasets.
Do you give it just as grammars or as like
NOTE CONF
information associated to very people?
Would you put them as equals?
NOTE CONF
Usual characteristics of a sample or theories of sample start
start with something simple, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
my question was.
NOTE CONF
Make the confusion matrix.
Oh yeah.
NOTE CONF
I just Basically, each of the, basically each of the
each was there.
NOTE CONF
Because if you look at the axions, right, it's mapping
the TPR and the FPR centre, right, but then those
NOTE CONF
numbers only changes because you change the threshold.
So it's basically like every single confusion matrix will have
NOTE CONF
different threshold.
And that taking those numbers.
NOTE CONF
And then you're looking at the new phone.
Right, but then when you meet the confusion matrix.
NOTE CONF
So you just set up.
The threshold is computed by when you call the function
NOTE CONF
and ask you to plot, which is plot based on.
You know, like I, I, every, every one of the
NOTE CONF
position.
I can, um.
NOTE CONF
Like at least once you know which model you want,
then you go back and say this is a model
NOTE CONF
and this is the apex.
Now I need to look at Whatever model setting that
NOTE CONF
gives me that reass which thresholds.
so that it's more for like.
NOTE CONF
Yes, in a way.
In a way, because you're varying the different thresholds to
NOTE CONF
say which model is good, and then you want them
to put the parameters to work with the model, right,
NOTE CONF
so at some point it's back and forth so.
You mentioned.
NOTE CONF
The pipeline is just basically like step 1, step 2,
step 3, step 4.
NOTE CONF
The first bit is to get the data and then
do the, do the data cleaning, that's like step 5,
NOTE CONF
so data preprocessing.
Uh, after that you do some transformation as required, you
NOTE CONF
reduce the dimension if you need, and then you find
a model and like those are the massive blocks and
NOTE CONF
that you stitch it up, and even if you just
change the different data set, you can just shove it
NOTE CONF
and do the same thing very seamless because these are
like to.
NOTE CONF
It's right the function function where functions.
This this pipeline is actually embedded in the library core,
NOTE CONF
so you can just call psychic learning.
Machine learning pipeline and then it says, well, first step,
NOTE CONF
select what models you wanna.
I said, what parameters do you want to shop into
NOTE CONF
this moment and.
Using the then then the threshold.
NOTE CONF
Because.
And the precision is the.
NOTE CONF
Anytime that those values changes, those things change.
Precision is how how precise you want how how how
NOTE CONF
well is correctly predicted.
And then sensitivities also.
NOTE CONF
Sensitivity is how sensitive it is being.
Not So how well is it at not doing for?
NOTE CONF
Look at the Panama flag.
It's a good leader.
NOTE CONF
Sorry, but the question.
Oh yeah.
NOTE CONF
So, when you, when you have a threshold, those number
changes, right, basically still, you know, positive or negative yeah.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, so all those things that were stated before, we
introduced the threshold.
NOTE CONF
The threshold is assumed as 0.5.
On once you sort of change that curve and say
NOTE CONF
look, you know, based on the sigmoid function, you're just
going to draw from this side onwards, it has to
NOTE CONF
be 0.7 and onwards to be deemed as a true
positive.
NOTE CONF
Then you go, OK, well now you've shifted that middle
section.
NOTE CONF
Thank you Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, he emailed that to me.
NOTE CONF
So is that so um you're claiming that now for
like people that.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, yeah, send me that.
So you have the spreadsheet on, yeah, we do that,
NOTE CONF
yeah, 35.
What's the I mean.
NOTE CONF
Um, I was just putting two things on my.
Uh, what is probably the best thing?
NOTE CONF
Is that for those That's I'm going to release a
shirt.
NOTE CONF
It's a practise.
So that this is a kind of uh what I
NOTE CONF
see does to what is syntax.
Uh, in order to practise the see in this, uh,
NOTE CONF
kind of.
And is there a specific question?
NOTE CONF
like all like.
Yeah, yeah, so for any, for any computer, uh.
NOTE CONF
Mm Your components you want to be able to as
well.
NOTE CONF
Dealing with that.
non high I I can learn is really the mama
NOTE CONF
that's all.
I should know what.
NOTE CONF
OK, last one.
A classic.
NOTE CONF
Yeah I see are classified and you know that that
process it even though I don't really know the math,
NOTE CONF
you know, I kind of know how.
Yeah, well, um, so, you know, psyche learning is another
NOTE CONF
major.
Library including the need to get and then they like
NOTE CONF
bodies.
And if you look at, if you just Google.
NOTE CONF
You Google, see this is where I think generally I
really.
NOTE CONF
not very Using a You know, and, and there you
go, show me um a coat title.
NOTE CONF
Free life Then you can contain contrast and say, well,
now I understand it as well.
NOTE CONF
How about I want to do.
You can now change your example.
NOTE CONF
And then compare the two books and all of this.
So if you're just chatting with the bar, I think
NOTE CONF
a very short time frame, you can ask and learn
about things that you've got more.
NOTE CONF
Rather than finding documentation.
When you Then we exposed.
NOTE CONF
And um the other sort of resources I would say.
You're talking about That doesn't mean What A lot of
NOTE CONF
people here top side and coding.
These are the kind of.
NOTE CONF
Um The final resource, maybe the first resource I say
let's go on to the.
NOTE CONF
The books are On the psychic learn It's pretty like
Proper to The first chapter, it just goes, well, do
NOTE CONF
this and then this is.
rather than here's the theory behind all that.
NOTE CONF
And then something That's This one And And But both
on it and my advice is to change that.
NOTE CONF
See Because you know, the second you make modification for
it, that's when you learn it, right?
NOTE CONF
Like if you're cooking, then like if I don't have
that much sugar, it shouldn't taste that sweet.
NOTE CONF
That's exactly what it is you understand the sugar goes
to the sweetness, right.
NOTE CONF
No, I tell you.
I think he's just like uploading that.
NOTE CONF
And it's a, it's a, it's why, it's why those
coding are needed.
NOTE CONF
That's so then how do you do this and that
but what's in?
NOTE CONF
And also just with the eyes.
But That was the I'll see the same point that
NOTE CONF
actually showing.
I Like you said, once I do them saying that
NOTE CONF
you all have any value is 0.
OK.
NOTE CONF
I actually just don't understand.
So basically, you know, using, using the samples like 2
NOTE CONF
slides before that time make sure.
He threshold 8.5 it's like.
NOTE CONF
There being one, you always see.
So using that actual sample like how has this apple.
NOTE CONF
It's always there.
Well, that's not really useful.
NOTE CONF
That's on the extreme end on the.
Because basically saying all irrespective of what it is, it
NOTE CONF
la.
It's always telling you the truth, so that's not necessarily
NOTE CONF
a perfect case, that is just.
I suppose yeah, wording is probably, it's a non-realistic, you
NOTE CONF
know, it's not useful.
Right, because it's always telling you like one and then
NOTE CONF
on the extreme and it's always telling you so.
So how, how is this really a salty butter?
NOTE CONF
Whereas on the other end of the spectrum the doctor.
It's like it's the point if they.
NOTE CONF
So somewhat in between, it has the ability to distinguish.
That's when the real costs.
NOTE CONF
Even that like when the knee.
Telling you there's a biassing more towards recall or precision.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, right, so you want to have a sweet spot
where I give you an apple, like maybe all the
NOTE CONF
green apples are generally sour, so you could buy a,
yeah, it's not so, and every so often you get
NOTE CONF
a sweet one.
It's OK we're making.
NOTE CONF
Issues using green apples, we don't really care about the
sweetness, you know, it's really the sourness.
NOTE CONF
Where's the like the the actual table or the red
hat?
NOTE CONF
You want to be sweet, you do want to give
it to the kids.
NOTE CONF
You don't wanna like, you know, put them off from
anyrus forever.
NOTE CONF
Right, so maybe you wanna like.
OK, so like again using the Apple.
NOTE CONF
You can play around with that checking.
Yeah And I was like You don't Yeah hopefully yeah
NOTE CONF
cool, easy.
You guys do it?
NOTE CONF
No.
In all Yeah, you got a glass on it yeah.
NOTE CONF
Same.
All right.
NOTE CONF
But I have to ask.
Right Um, but.
NOTE CONF
So And Um, she's better.
I So a longer sentence.
NOTE CONF
Um OK, so.
Um That was really right on the.
NOTE CONF
find a OK Yeah Yeah.
I Yeah, There's
NOTE CONF